jsonHTML allows you to grant the powers of javaScript to your dreaded static HTML. If you find writing HTML to be boring, or just need more flexibility and power to dynamically alter, manipulate, or duplicate HTML objects as if it were javaScript objects, this is for you. jsonHTML was created in a rush for one of my own projects, in which virtually none of my div objects, or much of any HTML could have been written traditionally, thus, I will release new versions, and improve functionality as my projects require more. jsonHTML was not written for performance, therefore it may not be best for very large projects, but it is good if you need to write code quickly, and dynamically alter objects in a more intuitive manner. Basically, the goal of the jsonHTML project is if you want to do something in javaScript, you will be able to reflect it in HTML.

Before this, to achieve the flexibility required for my projects, I had to write out the HTML as a string, and use jQuery to add them or manipulate them by parsing that string. This was tedious, especially compared to manipulating JSON objects as an abstraction layer. Basically put, by creating a JSON object to reflect what you want, jsonHTML takes your object and creates the string to pass to jQuery, then jQuery handles the rest. Think of jsonHTML as a compiler, or a jQuery shell, it takes javaScript (JSON) objects and compiles them down to HTML, where it is passed to jQuery, implemented into the DOM and the browser deals with them traditionally. It is also good to note, that if you are coming from a '.Net' environment to the Free Software society of the web, it may be easier to transition to the structured design of jsonHTML, rather than the fragmented world of developing for the web. jsonHTML definately helps to unify the common concepts of developing on the web, in an easy to use syntax.

If you are a more experienced programmer, you may notice that most of the example code below does not look like pure JSON, and in truth, you are correct! So why is this project called 'jsonHTML?' Basically, what you see below is due to the functionality that the $jConstruct contstructor gives you, without this you will have to write code in pure JSON. You can view the heart and soul of jsonHTML with the code examples near the bottom of this documentation.

So, if you would like to follow along, make sure to download the latest release, unpack, and give jsonHTML a try! It is assumed that you know the concepts of HTML, and javaScript. Having an understanding of jQuery is helpful, as jsonHTML largely depends on this library, but this understanding is not not mandatory. The documentation is still pretty basic as jsonHTML was not originally created to be released to the public, but as I moved the project to github, it became exposed to the public, and I have decided that it would be helpful to the free software coding community if my code was documented.